this may seem like an unusual
philosophical caveat to open a video
with but I'm opening this video by
saying that if I use the word meaningful
and I'm going to use the word meaningful
many many times in this video when I use
the word meaningful here I mean it in a
very neutral descriptive sense I don't
mean that something is good because it's
meaningful in the sense that many people
might say a work of art is a meaningful
it says very positive connotations I'm
gonna talk about exclusion and my long
history of being excluded from things
excluded from opportunities for what I
would call meaningful reasons and it
really does hurt me when people try to
explain these experiences of had
explained this big part of my life by
trying to reduce the situation to
meaningless reasons by trying to give
reductionistic explanations for what's
really happening here so a couple of
examples I have the experience of being
excluded from masters degree programs
and PhD programs in Asian Studies
academic study of politics and history
of Asia and it's for meaningful reasons
now why why do I say meaningful it's not
because I'm ugly
it's not because I have low grades it's
not because of your circumstances it's
not because I don't have enough money to
UM you know access Asian Studies it's
not because of some personal defective
character on my part akin to having a
stutter and I just say I'm someone who
is very well-spoken I can present myself
very well at job interviews and in
meetings and in high-pressure situations
you guys may have noticed they do a lot
of talking here on YouTube and so I'm
really especially aware of how people
with a fairly minor defective character
like having a stutter is not being able
to speak well and convincingly I
understand how that can impact their
whole lives in these situations in a way
that's meaningless a lot of Kree people
you guys know
I used to work with Korean Ojibwe people
when I lived in Saskatchewan a lot of
Cree people who have a traditional
upbringing actually have mannerisms that
really impede them this way during a job
interview or when asked a difficult
question being raised in their culture
they may respond to being asked a
question by looking down at the floor
and remaining silent for several seconds
I remember discussing this with a
professor that culturally this was taken
as a sign that you were taking the
question seriously and really thinking
about it but for most white Western
English speaking people it seems
dishonest and evasive you know why
aren't you looking me in the eye why
aren't you answering right away this
kind of thing
so there can be cultural barriers that
also lead to people being excluded from
opportunities in a way that's kind of
meaningless but Asian Studies for
example I have sent emails to and try to
apply to the master's degrees in PhD
programs in Asian Studies and I am often
excluded because of how they define
Asian Studies so I may write to a
program and they write back to me it's
better when they say this openly and
honestly sometimes I find out it more
indirectly and they say well their
definition of Asian Studies is just the
study of literature and poetry of
refined culture in some cases they write
back and say that they also do cinema in
some cases they may be also do painting
the arts indeed you can imagine just how
much there is the the history of
painting in China huge use to others but
for the most part its literature and
poetry and they write back and say look
if you don't do a classical literature
and poetry of China Japan maybe there
are a couple other place in the list
it's normally just China Japan then we
aren't interested we don't want to work
with you we don't want to supervise your
research so it is very very hurtful to
me when I explain to people what my
situation is in a khadeem
studies and they respond to that by
trying to claim no no no there were
plenty of opportunities few nation
studies your problem is just your
character that there's something
abrasive or displeasing about you like
having a stutter oh no no your problem
is just how your resume is written like
how your CV is worth it's something we
ultimately meaningless if you're gonna
know you just need to apply again and
did you change your behavior in some
trivial way that is really very hurtful
to me and you know I asked myself this
question sometimes why am I on YouTube
at all if I can't come on and talk about
my feelings this way I don't know what
this video is gonna mean for other
people I don't know what it would mean
for my own daughter if she sees it
someday but I can tell you this is
really meaningful to me and I've fixed
that word meaningful again oh you know I
think there's something here in human
nature that gets touched on or maybe
it's just in in my nature in terms of my
caring about honor and dignity and truth
and justice you know the point here is
not to claim that I am perfect and I'm
blameless and how dare you blame me for
something that somebody else's fault
objectively speaking it's not
necessarily a fault at all that this
academic discipline Asian Studies
defines what they do in the way that
they do but I'm telling you look my
experience of being excluded you know my
native experience it's not meaningless
and it's not trivial and it's not just
me it's not it's not it's not something
about my mannerisms and yeah it is very
very hurtful for me to hear back that
that that kind of comment I really feel
how dare you how dare you trivialize
this you know something that's obviously
has really serious long-term
implications for me and how dare you pin
it on something you imagine about my
character
just casting aspersions on me and
disregarding what the
context of this is that not only
explains you know a huge part of my life
in my struggle but that also tells you
something meaningful about the
institutional and political context that
we're all living in so to end on that
first example of Asian Studies Yee what
I'm asking you to understand if I'm if
you're one of the people I'm discussing
this way is not just hey look it's not
that I have low grades it's not that I
have a stutter it's not that I'm
personally abrasive in interviews with
professors and putting them off this way
I want you to understand there were a
lot of professors in academia who
respond really negatively to my resume
my CV because it has Buddhism in it some
of them will respond and say oh we don't
do Buddhist studies that's a different
department go to the department of
religion we just do Asian Studies and
here's what we do find that there are
people who respond negatively to the
fact that politics is in my CV is in my
resume and they say oh we do politics we
just do literature and poetry there's
another department go to the politics
department don't talk to us you know so
can weather this is objectively good or
this is objectively bad as another issue
but any men here's a huge one I'm an
anti-communist I'm Pro democracy and
anti-communism and there are professors
of Asian Studies there are professors of
Chinese Studies in the history of China
who are members of the Communist Party
who are sincerely pro-communist and some
of those people are born and raised
trainees or ethnic O'Jays and some of
them are white people who converted to
Chinese commies it became supporters of
Chinese communism and I'm very familiar
with that because my own parents were
both white people who converted to
Chinese communism became supporters of
Mao Zedong and of communist extremism in
general in their case they also
supported Joseph Stalin that's that's
kind of a story for another video so
look the next two examples and another
thing I could have run through pretty
briefly in parallel this and this is why
I was so upset by comments recently made
by this guy named named David here on
YouTube on patreon I understand why I've
been excluded from
opportunities in Buddhism and this came
up in a video that was kind of upsetting
and interesting to me I put up a video
of my speaking to a professor of
Buddhist studies and it was a really
lousy university department boat of
studies offering a master's degree and
PhD and it's a video you can see here on
YouTube am I talking to this professor
and right at the beginning he says look
why would you want this opportunity like
our university is so humble are you sure
you'd really want to do this this will
be kind of terrible for your career and
probably you don't learn very much being
here and so on and you know the point at
which that conversation really turns
sour because it's quite positive and
communicative and collaborative up to a
point is when I start talking about bias
or prejudice within Buddhist studies
which is very real thing and that a lot
of those biases and prejudices against
me and then he immediately becomes very
hostile and very defensive as if I'm
accusing him of being a racist or
something and the conversation falls
apart it ends acrimoniously so this this
doesn't just one parallel to the example
I'm I'm giving you it's both parallel
and intersects with this issue because
this is an example of it what I was
trying to explain to him is look I'm
excluded from some departments of
Buddhist studies because they're run by
people who are devoted to Tibet Tibetan
Buddhism Tibetan politics Tibetan
history Tibetan language and I
understand that look I understand I'm
being excluded for a reason there are
other departments of academic
departments for Buddhist studies where
everyone is devoted to Sanskrit Sanskrit
as a language and then to some extent
the history of politics of India etc and
I'm excluded from that there were many
departments of Buddhist studies that are
primarily rooted in Japanese Buddhism
and Japanese as language and Japanese
politics so again the point is look this
is a meaningful reason why I'm being
excluded this is a meaningful reason
well I don't have these opportunities
that doesn't mean it's good that doesn't
mean I agree with it but I can
sympathize
if I am a professor in this department
if I'm a professor in the university and
I've devoted my whole life to Japanese
as a language I've devoted my whole life
to Tibetan or Sanskrit or any of these
examples I can understand why they would
receive a CV they would receive a resume
they would receive an application from
someone like me and they would say look
this guy has expertise in sri lanka
Cambodia Laos Myanmar Yunnan we don't
want it this guy has expertise in an
area where we don't have expertise where
we don't want to be challenged we don't
want to think about these things and of
course it's not just political it's not
just linguistic there's also religion
involved there is also deeply held
personal beliefs they don't want their
beliefs challenged but even if language
were the only issue you must understand
Cambodian is a completely alien language
from Japanese Pali is a completely alien
language from Tibetan so on and so forth
so I can understand why I'm being
excluded for those reasons and it really
hurts me to have people say no this is
just your fault
this is just some defective character
you have etc so my reason for making
this video now is that I just had this
interaction with a guy named David and
he was writing to me and suggesting that
I was being excluded from participating
in other vegan political groups other
vegan organizations and movements for a
pretty meaningless reason or set of
reasons he was suggesting that I was
being excluded because the email I was
writing to these people the emails that
were saying were just not very good at
introducing me or presenting my channel
presenting what I what I had to offer
anyway in reply at first I gave him an
example of the actual emails that I that
I do offer and you know I found his
reply to that also quite hurtful in
exactly this way I'm excluded from
participating in most vegan groups for
meaningful reasons so I'll give an
example I'm a critic of animal
sanctuaries
several videos your search for sanctuary
on this channel I talked about how much
money and how much time and how much
effort goes into keeping just one horse
alive on a sanctuary you can devote your
whole life and all your fundraising to
just keeping one horse alive in a
sanctuary and you have to shovel the
horses poo and you have to provide it
with at least a monthly visit from a vet
and deworming services and so on and so
forth and the outcome of this if you
manage to keep a couple of horses and a
couple of pigs is ultimately not very
different from these animals being on a
farm it's just a farm that goes on
forever and ever as opposed to a farm
that slaughters them it's a farm that
continues now they die of relatively
natural causes but this isn't even
morally equivalent to a zoo and it's not
equivalent to habitat conservation or
putting these animals in a context where
they can live a natural life or they can
live a feral life or they can reproduce
and hunt and forage and find their own
food it is still keeping them in
captivity it's keeping them in farm-like
conditions it's just a farm that
operates at a loss rather than for a
profit now even if that were the only
ethical issue and the only political
issue that alienates me from other vegan
groups it's a meaningful issue it
explains why they don't want to work
with me and in many cases why I don't
want to work with them so yeah it is
uniquely and deeply hurtful to me for me
to hear back from other vegans like oh
no no there were plenty of opportunities
for you in veganism there are plenty of
organizations or institutions you could
work with there are plenty of vegan
activist you work with you've just
somehow got some trivial Flavel you've
got something about you like a stutter
that somehow is abrasive or hits rubs
people the wrong way
that it's somehow just petty
circumstances that have resulted in you
not being able to cooperate with these
people productively no I think there are
real reasons and meaningful reasons why
I'm not a member of
had a People for the Ethical Treatment
of Animals why I'm not a member of DXE
direct action everywhere while I'm not a
member of any of these other
institutions and yes in many cases I
exclude them I mean this is also true
it's not even being mentioned of the
academic situation the first two
examples there are many cases where I'm
turning them down or I'm excluding them
and there are many cases where they're
excluding me and for me at least maybe
there's a broader moral to the story
some of you guys can draw whether you're
dealing with personal professional
educational career aspirations or
political aspirations and humanitarian
aspirations I think it's really
significant let's treat what's
meaningful as meaningful and let's have
the maturity and attachment to treat
what's meaningless as meaningless